# Geophonino-W-A-Wireless-Multichannel-Seismic-Noise-Recorder-System-for-Array-Measurements
Geophonino-W: A Wireless Multichannel Seismic Noise Recorder System for Array Measurements
The characterization of soil is essential for the evaluation of seismic hazard, because soil properties strongly influence the damage caused by earthquakes. Methods based on seismic noise are the most commonly used in soil characterization. Concretely, methods based on seismic noise array measurements allow for the estimation of Rayleigh wave dispersion curves and, subsequently, shear-wave velocity profiles. The equipment required for the application of this technique is usually very expensive, which could be a significant economic challenge for small research groups. In this work, we have developed a wireless multichannel seismic noise recorder system (Geophonino-W), which is suitable for array measurements. Each station includes a microcontroller board (Arduino), a conditioning circuit, an Xbee module, an SD card, and a GPS module. Several laboratory tests were carried out in order to study the performance of the Geophonino-W: A frequency response test (impulse response and noise); synchronization test; and battery duration test. Comparisons of Geophonino-W with the commercial systems and field measurements were also carried out. The estimated dispersion curves obtained using the proposed system were compared with the ones obtained using other commercial equipment, demonstrating the effectiveness of Geophonino-W for seismic noise array measurements. Geophonino-W is an economic open-source and hardware system that is available to any small research group or university.
